Body Won’t Forget

Im reading this awesome book on how trauma works and affects people and I might came into the conclusion that I need to write things down becasuse there are a tons of new information and I need to just keep notes in case of review.
Maybe ill just write important pieces from the book that in my mind seem so new and interesting and leave the expansion part which I use to get my opinions involved and make a custom version of all stories for my own.
But now I want to keep it simple.

I want to say that my opinion about trauma has shifted like 180 degrees based on first chapters I red, from a normal and not so much complicated and serious thing to something dreadful.
I thought trauma acts like some aggression and depression in adulthood that we might encounter but something like cutting self , suecide  , getting into sex abutment , trap into sever aggression threading family member.
All these things are somethings that I never thought would be real and exist.

Mindfulness and being aware of mind and body when you suddenly and with no control over you body get into sever emotions helps you identify the feeling and its source and how it really got into shape and considered some sort of first steps for people engaged in trauma.

Book stated so many reasons for getting into trauma , childhood abuse , childhood watching parents get into fight and beating each other , car accidents and etc.
These are authentic reasons to get trauma and also very common at least in use (I’m sure that such things in Iran is much worse)

 There were some discussions about how drugs evolved and got into use after 1950 and considered some serious solutions to some ver extreme mental illness.
But also considered as a short cut and not fixing the main problem.

I learned much about how brain development during childhood and early years too.
So trauma prevents this , something like ignoring child , do not prepare safe environment for child will result some parts of brain to not get developed that much so child will get into some real troubles like stress all time , hard time finding friends.

Also it was a really cool part demonstrating how brain will act and some part of brain would really work In time of facing trauma memories, so when it happens people would loose insight that the trauma time has passed and belongs to past and they are in present , they do not realize that and think that this has happened just now.

Also a cool part that people got into trauma would have some actions and habits that usually develops to prevent them from getting into sever emotions caused by trauma , like drinking alcohol , exercise and sever ones actually , drugs , etc.
These things shows when individual is highly engaged in some sort of action or toxic working routine might be suffering from a real trauma and they simply are not aware of it.

Some behaviors like ADHD , having bad eating habits , unable to achieve some goals are usually caused by trauma in childhood.

I found out many normal behaviors that usually people have are caused from trauma and sever brain activities during something that happened.

The first thing people do when they encounter something terrible in life is going to others and seeking help from them , this behavior came from childhood pattern when you frightened you’d go into parents arms.
So if this cycle doesn’t get completed and people go to solitude its big problem and maybe cannot process the pain alone and causing bad behaviors.
So in this case psychologists would send patients into groups and support groups to regain confidence and seeing other humans also may have similar problems and would get an ease to find other people struggling with similar problem.



The second part of my writing mostly goes to practical solution that book covered through few seasons.


First thing that comes to my mind about trauma and how it could be healed is by using of yoga.
Yoga is considered as a great way to connect to your body and the whole system of knowing it and understanding it.
Yoga teaches us to focus on different part of body and muscles through session of working and seeing how getting some pressure on different part of muscles activates some emotions in us.
About yoga there is a book that I have saved and could be red if I get seriouse about healing myself.

Second thing that affected me and had a real impact on me was the fact of that theater has a great impact on trauma , well it appears that acting on a character and getting focused about how character is being played on scene is a grate medicine for trauma and very and largely used over United States .
This method also has got used to heal people that have been traumatized in their life and helped them greatly.
For myself this method that acting could led to such a big thing is considered mysterious and I got to try it somehow !

There were other ways of treatment that the physician helps the person to imagine him or her self on situation that is awkward and hard for her and through that situation he/she tries to express feelings with words and that causes the person to get such a relief and be well soon.
This method makes a lots of sense and also makes me wonder how much could it benefit if just to imagine people and could talk to them in this imaginations and tell them how you feel about them or what they did.
Cool part of applying this method was when the patient was told to imagine him/her self and talk to himself and even forgive him about how world has been , 
This way the person get into peace with him/her self and won’t blame the self for how things has been, this counts as a big part and big movement.

The other way was EMDR that I did not fully grasp but seemed really important.


























